Maybe after the industrial revolution,
this is the biggest thing. But at the
same time, I'm a little grounded in the
fact that this is still early innings.
If you're a model company, you may have
a winner's curse. You may have done all
the hard work, done unbelievable
innovation, except it's kind of like one
copy [music] away from that being
commoditized. We didn't want to just be
a host for one company and have just a
massive book of business with one
customer. [music] That that's not a
business. You can't build an
infrastructure that's optimized for one
model. If you did that, you're one tweak
away. Some like breakthrough that
[music] happens and your entire network
topology goes out of the window. Then
that's a scary thing. Our business,
which today is an enduser tools
business, will become essentially an
[music] infrastructure business in
support of agents doing work. The thing
that you have to think [music] through
is not what you do in the next 5 years,
but what do you do for the next 50.
>> Today we are interviewing Satya Nadella.
We being me and Dylan Patel who is
founder of semi analysis. Satya,
welcome.
>> Thank you. It's great. Thanks for coming
over at Atlanta.
>> Yeah, thank you for giving us a tour of
uh the new facility. It's been really
cool to see.
>> Absolutely.
>> Satya and Scott Guthrie, Microsoft's EVP
[music] of cloud and AI, give us a tour
of their brand new Fairwater 2 data
center, the current most powerful in the
world.
>> We try to 10x the training [music]
capacity every 18 to 24 months. And so
this would be effectively a 10x increase
10x from what GPD5 was trained with. And
so to put in perspective, the number of
optics, the network optics in this
building is almost as much as all of
Azure across all our data centers 2 and
a half years ago.
>> It's kind of what 5 million network
connections.
>> You've got all this bandwidth between
different sites in a region and between
the two regions. So is this like a big
bet on scaling in the future that you
anticipate in the future there's going
to be some huge model that needs to
require two whole different regions to
train
>> the goal is to be able to kind of
aggregate these flops for a large
training job and then put these things
together across size
>> right
>> and the reality is you'll use it for uh
training and then you'll use it for data
gen you'll use it for inference in all
sort of ways it's not like it's going to
be used only for one workload forever
>> water four which you're going to see
under construction nearby.
>> Yeah. We'll also be on that one pedits
[music] network.
>> Yep.
>> So that we can actually link the two at
a very high rate. And then basically we
do the IWAN connecting to Milwaukee
where we have multiple other fair waters
being built.
>> Literally you can see the the model
parallelism and the data parallelism.
It's kind of built for um essentially
the training jobs, the pods, the super
pods across this campus. And then with
the van, you can go to the Wisconsin
data center and literally run a training
job with all of them getting aggregated.
>> And what we're seeing right here is this
is a cell with no servers in it yet. No
racks.
>> How many uh racks are in a cell?
>> Let me think about it. We don't
necessarily share that per se, but but
we let me
>> The reason I asked [laughter]
you'll see upstairs you can start
counting. We'll let you start counting.
How many cells are there in this
building?
>> That part also I can't tell you. Well,
division is easy, right?
>> My god, it's kind of loud.
>> Are you looking at this like now I see
where my money is going? [laughter]
>> It's kind of like I run a software
company. Welcome to the software
company.
>> How big is the design space once you've
decided to use GB200's and NVIL? How
many other decisions are there to be
made? There is coupling from the model
architecture
to what is the physical plan that's
optimized
>> and it's also scary in that sense which
is hey there's going to be a new chip
that will come out which obviously I
mean you take Vera Rubin ultra I mean
that's going to have power density
that's going to be so different with
cooling requirements that are going to
be so different right so you kind of
don't want to just build all to one spec
so that goes back a little to I think
the dialogue we'll have which is
>> you want to be scaling in time
>> as opposed to scale once and then be
stuck with it.
>> When you look at all the past
technological transitions whether it be
you know railroads or the internet or
you know replaceable parts and
translization uh the cloud all of these
things each revolution has gotten much
faster in the time it goes from
technology discover to ramp and
pervasiveness through the economy. Many
folks who have been on Darkesh's podcast
believe this is sort of the final uh
technological revolution or transition
and this time is very very different. Um
and at least so far in the markets it's
sort of you know in three years we've
already skyrocketed to you know
hyperscalers are doing $500 billion of
capex next year which is a scale that's
un unmatched to prior revolutions in
terms of speed and the end state seems
to be quite different. How how do you
your your framing of this seems quite
different than sort of the I would say
the AI bro who is who is quite um you
know AGI is coming and you know I'd like
to understand that more.
>> Yeah. I mean look I I I start with the
excitement that I also feel for maybe
after the industrial revolution this is
the biggest thing. Um and so therefore I
I I I I start with that premise. uh but
at the same time I'm a little grounded
in the fact that uh this is still early
innings. Uh we've built some very useful
things. We're seeing some great
properties. These scaling laws seem to
be working. Um and I'm optimistic that
they'll continue to work right. Some of
it is um you know it does require real
science breakthroughs but it's also a
lot of engineering and what have you.
But that said, I also sort of take the
view that you know even what has been
happening in the last 70 years of
computing uh has also been a march uh
that has helped us move um you know with
as I said you know I like one of the
things that Raj ready has as a metaphor
for what AI is right he's a he's a
turing award winner out of CMU um and
he's always I think he had this even
pre- AGI but he had this metaphor of AI
should either be a guardian angel or a
cognitive amplifier. I love that uh it's
a simple way to think about what this is
ultimately what is its human utility? It
is going to be a cognitive amplifier uh
and a guardian angel. And so if I sort
of view it that way, I view it as a
tool. But then you can also go very
mystical about it and say, "Wow, this is
you know more than a tool. It does all
these things which only humans did so
far." But that has been the case with
many technologies in the past. only
humans did a lot of things and then we
add tools that did them.
>> I guess we don't have to get wrapped up
in their definition here, but maybe one
way to think about it is like maybe it
takes 5 years, 10 years, 20 years. At
some point eventually a machine is
producing Satya tokens, right? And the
Microsoft board thinks that Satia tokens
are worth a lot.
>> How much how much are you wasting of his
[laughter] of like economic value by
interviewing Satya?
>> You cannot afford the API cost of Satia
tokens. Um but so you know whatever you
want to call it is that are the SATA
tokens a tool or an agent whatever. Um
right now if you have models that cost
on the order of dollars or cents per
million tokens there's just an enormous
room for expansion uh a margin expansion
there where sad a million tokens of SA
are like worth a lot um and where does
that margin go and what level of that
margin is Microsoft involved in is a
question I have. So I think um in in
some sense this goes back a band to
essentially what's the economic growth
picture going to really look like? Um
what's the firm going to look like?
What's productivity going to look like?
And that to me is where again if the
industrial revolution created after
whatever 70 years of diffusion is when
you started seeing the economic growth,
right? it took that's the other thing to
remember is um even if the tech is
diffusing fast uh this time around for
true economic growth to appear it has to
sort of diffuse to a point where the
work the work artifact and the workflow
has to change and so that's kind of one
place where I think uh the change
management required for a corporation to
truly change I think is something we
shouldn't discount so I think going
forward do humans and the tokens they
produce get higher leverage, right? Uh
whether it's the Dark Cesh or the Dylan
tokens of the future. I mean, think
about the amount of techn would you be
able to run semi analysis or this
podcast without technology? No chance,
right? I mean, the scale that you have
been able to achieve, no chance. So, the
question is what's that scale? Is it
going to be 10xed with something that
comes through? Uh absolutely. uh and
therefore within your ramp to some
revenue number or your ramp to some
audience number or what have you and so
that I think is what's going to happen
right I mean the the point is uh that's
whatever what took 70 years maybe 150
years for the industrial revolution may
happen in 20 years 25 years that's a
better way to like I would love to
compress what happened in 200 years of
the industrial revolution into 20-year
period if you're lucky
>> so Microsoft historically has been
perhaps you know the greatest software
company the largest software as a
service company you know you've gone
through a transition in the past where
you used to sell Windows licenses and
discs of Windows or Microsoft and now
you sell you know subscriptions to 365
or um as as we go from sort of you know
that transition to where your business
is today um there's also a transition
going after that right uh software as a
service incredibly low incremental cost
per user uh there's a lot of R&D there's
a lot customer acquisition cost. This is
why not Microsoft but the SAS companies
have underperformed massively in the
markets because the cogs of AI is just
so high and that just completely breaks
how these business models work.
>> How do you as a as as a as perhaps the
greatest software company um software as
a service company transition Microsoft
to this new age where COGS matters a lot
um and and the incremental cost per
users is different right because right
now you're charging hey it's 20 bucks
for a co-pilot.
>> Yeah. So I think that this is a it's a
great question because in some sense the
business models themselves I think the
levers are going to remain similar right
which is if I look at the the if if you
look at the menu of models uh starting
from like say consumer all the way right
there will be some ad unit uh there will
be some transaction there will be some
device gross margin for somebody who
builds an AI device um uh there will be
subscriptions consumer and enterprise uh
and then there'll be consumption right
so I still think that that's kind of how
those are all the meters. To your point,
what is a subscription? Up to now,
people like subscriptions because they
can budget for them, right? They are
essentially entitlements to some
consumption rights that come
encapsulated in a subscription. So that
I think is what in some sense it becomes
a pricing decision. Uh so how much
consumption is in you are entitled to is
if you look at all the coding
subscriptions that's kind of what they
are, right? and they kind of have the
pro tier, the standard tier and what
have you. And so I think that's how the
pricing will uh you know and the margin
structures will get tiered. Um the
interesting thing is having at Microsoft
the good news for us is we kind of are
in that business uh all in across all
those meters. in fact that at a as a
portfolio level uh we pretty much have
consumption subscriptions
uh to all of the other consumer levers
as well. Um and then I think time will
tell which of these models make sense in
what categories. Um, one thing on the
SAS side since you brought up which I
think a lot about is uh take uh Office
365 or Microsoft 365. I mean man having
a low RPO is great because here here's
an interesting thing right during the
transition from server to cloud one of
the questions we used to ask ourselves
is oh my god if all we did was just
basically move the same users who were
using let's call it our office licenses
and our servers at that time office
servers right to the cloud and we had
cogs this is going to basically not only
shrink our margins uh but we'll be
fundamentally a nonprofitable I mean
less profitable company except What
happened was the move to the cloud
expanded the market like crazy. Uh right
I mean we sold a few servers in India
didn't sell much whereas in the cloud
suddenly everybody in India also could
afford fractionally buying uh servers.
The IT costs I in fact the biggest thing
I had not realized for example was the
amount of money people were spending
buying storage underneath SharePoint. In
fact, EMC's biggest segment may have
been storage servers for SharePoint. All
that sort of dropped in the cloud
because nobody had to go buy in fact it
was working capital. I mean basically it
is cash flow out right and so it
expanded the market massively. So this
AI thing will be that right. So if you
take coding
um what we built with GitHub and VS code
in over whatever decades uh suddenly the
coding assistant is that big in one year
and so that I think is what's going to
happen as well which is the market
expands massively. M I I guess there's a
question of the market will expand. Will
the parts of the revenue that touch
Microsoft expand? So copilot is an
example where if you look uh early this
year I think uh I guess according to
Dylan's numbers um the co-pilot revenue
github co-pilot revenue was like 500
million or something like that and then
u there were like no close competitors
whereas now you have claude code cursor
and copilot with around similar revenue
around a billion and then codeex is
catching up around 700 800 million and
so the question is across all the
services that Microsoft has access to
what is the advantage that mic
Microsoft's equivalents of Copilot have.
>> Yeah, by the way, I love this chart. You
know, I love this chart for so many
reasons. One is we're still on the top.
[laughter]
>> Um, second is all these companies that
are listed here are all companies that
have been born in the last four or five
years.
>> Yeah,
>> that to me is the best sign, right?
Which is if you have new competitors,
new existential problems, when you say,
man, who's it now? Claude's going to
kill you. Cursor is going to kill you.
It's not Borland, right? So, thank God.
like that means we are in the right
direction but this is it right the fact
that we went from nothing to this scale
is the market expansion so this is like
the cloud-like stuff this fundamentally
this category of coding and AI is
probably going to be one of the biggest
categories right it is a software
factory category in fact it may be
bigger than knowledge work
>> so I kind of want to keep myself
open-minded about I mean we're going to
have tough competition I think that's
your point which I think is a great on
uh but man like I'm glad we have we
parlayed uh what we had into this and
now we have to compete and so in the
compete side uh even in the last quarter
we just we did our quarterly uh
announcement I think we grew from 20 to
26 million subs right so I feel good
about our sub growth uh and where the
direction of travel on that is but the
more interesting thing that has happened
is guess where all the repos of all
these other guys uh who are generating
lots and lots of code go to they go to
GitHub so it GitHub is at an all-time
high in terms of repo creation PRs
everything so that in some sense we want
to keep that open by the way that means
we want to have that right because we
don't want to conflate that with our own
growth right the interestingly enough
we're getting one developer joining
GitHub a second or something that is the
stat I think and then 80% of them just
fall into some GitHub copilot uh
workflow just because there are and by
the way many of these things will even
use some of our coding code review
agents which are by default on just
because you can use it. So we'll have
many many structural shots at this. The
thing that we're also going to do is
what we did with git g get the
primitives of github whether starting
with git to issues to actions these are
powerful lovely things because they kind
of are all built around your repo. So we
want to extend that last week at GitHub
Universe. That's kind of what we did,
right? So we said agent HQ was the
conceptual thing that we said we're
going to build out. This is where for
example you have a thing called mission
control and you go to mission control
and now I can fire off sometimes I
describe it as the cable TV of all these
AI agents because I'll have essentially
packaged into one subscription
codeex claude um you know cognition
staff anyone's agents gro all of them
will be there so I get one package and
then I can literally go issue a task
steer them so they'll all be working in
their independent branches. Uh I can
monitor them. Uh so I literally have
because I think that's going to be one
of the biggest places of innovation,
right? Because right now I want to be
able to use multiple agents. I want to
be able to then digest the output of the
multiple agents. I want to be able to
then keep a h a handle on my repo. So if
there's some some kind of a heads up
display that needs to be built and then
for me to quickly steer and triage what
the coding agents have generated that to
me between VS code GitHub and all of
these new primitives we'll build uh as
mission control I think uh with a
control plane observability I mean think
about every uh one who is going to
deploy all this will require a whole
host of observability of what agent did
what at what time to what code base so I
feel that's the opport opportunity uh
and at the end of the day your point is
well taken which is we better be
competitive and innovate and if we don't
yes we will get toppled but I like the
chart at least as long as we're on the
top even with competition
>> the key point here is sort of that
GitHub will keep growing irregardless of
whose coding agent wins but that that
market only grows at you know call it 10
15 20% which is way above GDP it's a
great compounder but these AI coding
agents have grown from you know call it
$500 million run rate at the end of last
year which was basically ally just
GitHub copilot to now the current run
rate across you know GitHub copilot
cloud code cursor cognition wind surflet
uh codeex open codeex that's that's
that's run rating at 56 billion now um
for the for the Q4 of of this year
that's a 10x right and and when you look
at hey what's the TAM of of software
agents is it is it the $2 trillion of
wages you pay people or is it is it is
it something beyond that uh because
every company in the will now be able
to, you know, develop software more.
>> No question Microsoft takes a slice of
that, but you've gone from near 100% or
certainly way above 50% to, you know,
sub 25% market share in just one year.
What is the sort of confidence that
people can get that Microsoft
>> there's no again it goes back a little
bit D to sort of there's no birthright
here that we should have any confidence
other than to say hey we should go
innovate and knowing the the lucky break
we have in some sense is that uh this
category is going to be a lot bigger
than anything we had high share in let's
let me say it that way right in some
sense you could say man we kind of had
high share in VS code we had high share
in the repos for with GitHub uh uh and
that was a good market but the point is
even having a decent share in what is a
much more expansive market right I mean
you could say we had a high share in
client server server computing we have
much lower share than that in hypers
scale but is it a much bigger business
by orders of magnitude so at least
there's existence proof that Microsoft's
been okay uh even if our share position
has not been as strong as it was uh as
long as the markets we're competing in
creating more value and there are
multiple winners. Uh so I think that's
the stuff but I I I take your point that
ultimately it all means you have to get
competitive. So I watch that every
quarter and so that's why I think what
I'm very optimistic that uh what we're
going to do with GitHub HQ and or agent
HQ turning GitHub into a place where all
these agents come uh as I said we'll
have multiple shots on goal on there
right it it need not be that hey some of
these guys can succeed along with us uh
and so it doesn't need to be just one
winner uh and one subscription
>> I I guess the reason to focus on this
question is that it's not just about
GitHub but fundamentally about office
and all the other software that
Microsoft offers which is that one
vision you could have about how I
proceeds is that look the models are
going to keep being hobbled then you'll
need this direct visible um
observability all the time and another
vision is over time these models can now
they're doing tasks that take two
minutes in the future they'll be doing
tasks that next be tasks that take 10 30
minutes in the future maybe they're
doing days worth of work autonomously
and then the model companies are
charging thousands of dollars maybe for
access to really a co-orker which could
use any UI to communicate with their
human and so forth and migrate between
platforms. So if we're getting closer to
that, why aren't the model companies
that are just getting more and more
profitable, the ones that are taking all
the margin, why is the the place where
the scaffolding happens, which becomes
less and less relevant as a as become
more cap capable going to be that
important? And that goes to, you know,
office as it exists now versus
co-workers that are just doing knowledge
work.
>> Great point. I mean I think that's a I
mean for example I mean this is where
you know does all the value migrate just
to uh the model um and uh or does the
you know the does it get split between
the scaffolding um and the model and
what have you I think that uh time will
tell but my my fundamental point also is
the incentive structure gets clear right
which is if you take um let's take uh
let's take information work or take even
coding u already in fact one of favorite
settings I have uh in GitHub copilot is
called auto um right which will just
optimize in fact I buy a subscription
the auto one will start picking and
optimizing for what I am asking it to do
uh and it could even be fully autonomous
and it could sort of arbitrage the
tokens available across multiple models
to go get a task done so if that is the
that means that if you take that
argument the commodity there will be
models
uh and especially with open source
models you can pick a checkpoint and you
can take a bunch of your data and you're
seeing it right I think all of us will
start you whether it's from cursor or
from Microsoft you'll start seeing some
in-house models even uh which will and
then you'll offload most of your uh task
to it so I think that one argument is if
you win the scaffolding uh which today
is dealing with all the hobbling
problems or the uh the jaggedness of
this intelligence problems which you
kind of have to um if you win that then
you will vertically integrate yourself
into the model just because you will
have the liquidity of the data and what
have you and there are enough and more
checkpoints that are going to be
available. uh that's the other thing
right so structurally I think there will
always be an open- source model uh that
will be fairly capable in the world that
you could then use as long as you have
something that you can use that uh with
which is data uh and a scaffolding right
so I can make the argument that oh my
god uh if you're a model company you may
be you may have a winner's curse you may
have done all the hard work done
unbelievable innovation except it's kind
of like one copy uh away from that being
commoditized and then the person who has
the data for grounding and context
engineering um and the liquidity of data
can then go take that checkpoint and
train it. So I think the argument can be
made both ways.
>> Unpacking sort of what you said, there's
two views of the world, right? One is
that models, there's so many different
models out there. Open source exists.
There will be differences between the
models that will drive some level of,
you know, who wins and who doesn't, but
the scaffolding is what enables you to
win. The other view is that actually
models are the key IP and yes, we're in
a very everyone's in a tight race and
there's some, you know, hey, I can use
anthropic or open AAI and you can see
this in the revenue charts, right? like
OpenAI's revenue started skyrocketing
once they finally had a code model
similar capabilities to anthropic
although in different ways. Um
there's a view that like the model
companies are actually the ones that
garner all the margin right because you
know if you look across this year at
least on entropic their gross margins on
inference went from you know well below
40% to north of 60 right by the end of
the year um the these the margins are
expanding [clears throat] there despite
hey more Chinese open source models than
ever hey open's competitive hey Google's
competitive hey x Grock is now
competitive right all these all these
companies are now competitive and yet
despite this the margins have expanded
at the model layer significantly. Um h
how do you think about the
>> it's a it's a great question. I I think
that the one thing is perhaps a few
years ago people were saying oh I can
just wrap a model and build a successful
company. Uh and that I think is probably
gotten debunked just because the model
capabilities um and with tools use in
particular.
But the interesting thing is there's no
like when I look at Office 365. Let's
take even this little thing we built
called Excel agent. It's interesting
right? Excel agent is not a UI level
wrapper. It's actually a model that is
in the middle tier. Uh in this case
because we have all the IP from the the
GPT family. uh we are taking that and
putting it into the core middle tier of
the office system to both teach it what
it means to natively understand Excel
everything in it. So it's not just hey I
just have a pixel level understanding I
have an full understanding of all the
native artifacts of Excel uh both when I
see it like because if you think about
it if I'm going to give it some
reasoning task right I need to even fix
the reasoning mistakes I make and so
that means I need to both not just see
the pixels I need to be able to see oh I
got that formula wrong and I need to
understand that and then so to some
degree that's all being done not at the
UI wrapper level with some prompt but
it's being done in the middle tier by
teaching it all the tools of Excel,
right? So, I'm giving it even
essentially a markdown to teach it the
skills of what it means to be a
sophisticated Excel user. So, it's a
weird thing that it it goes back a
little bit to AI brain, right? Which is
you're building not just Excel. You are
now business logic in its traditional
sense. You're taking the Excel business
logic in the traditional sense and
wrapping essentially a cognitive layer
to it using this model which knows how
to use the tool. So in some sense, Excel
will come with an analyst bundled in and
with all the tools used.
>> That's the type of stuff that'll get
built by everybody. So even for the
model companies, they'll have to
compete, right? So if they price stuff
high, uh guess what? If I'm a builder of
a tool like this, I'll substitute you. I
may use you for a while. And so as long
as there's competition, there's always a
winner take all thing, right? If there's
going to be one model that is better
than everybody else with massive
distance, yes, that's a winner take all.
As long as there's going to be
competition where there's multiple
models just like hypers scale
competition and there's an open- source
check, uh there is enough room here uh
to go build value on top of models.
>> Uh but at Microsoft, the way I look at
it and say is uh we are going to be in
the hypers scale business which will
support multiple models. we will have
access to open AI models for uh you know
seven more years which we will innovate
on top of so royalty I mean essentially
I think of ourselves as having a
frontier class model uh that we can use
and innovate on with full uh flexibility
and we'll build our own models uh with
Mai um and and so we will always have a
model level and then we'll build these
whether it's in security whether it's in
knowledge work whether it's in coding or
in science we will build our own
applications scaffolding which will be
model forward right it won't be a
wrapper on a model but the model will be
wrapped into uh the application I have
so many questions about the other things
you mentioned but before we move on to
those topics um I still wonder whether
this is like not forwardlooking on AI
capabilities where you're imagining
models like they exist today where yeah
I can you have to like it takes a
screenshot of your screen but it can't
like look inside each cell and what the
formula is and I think the better mental
audited here is like look a human just
imagine that these models actually will
be able to actually use a computer as
well as a human and a human knowledge
worker who is using Excel can look into
the formulas can you know use
alternative software can migrate data
between office 365 and another piece of
software if the migration is necessary
etc so that's kind of what I'm saying
but if that's the case then the
integration with Excel doesn't matter
that much don't worry about the Excel
integration
after all Excel was built as a tool for
anal analysts. Great. So, whoever is
this AI that is an analyst should have
tools that they can
>> computer, right? Just the way a human
can use a computer, that's their tool.
>> The the tool is the computer. Right.
>> Right. So, that so all I'm saying is I'm
building an analyst as as essentially an
AI agent uh which happens to come with
an a priority knowledge of how to use
all of these analytical tools. But is it
is it something maybe just just to make
sure we're talking about the same thing.
Um is it a thing that a hum like me
using Excel as a podcast
completely autonomous? So just imagine I
work like so we should now maybe sort of
lay out how I think the future of the
company is right. uh the future of the
company would be the tools business
which I have a computer I use Excel and
in fact in the future I'll even have a
co-pilot and that co-pilot will also
have agents right that's still I am I
you know it's still me steering
everything
>> and everything is coming back so that's
kind of one world
>> then the second world is the company
just literally provisions a computing
resource for an AI agent
>> and that is working fully autonomously
>> that fully autonomous agent will have
essentially embodied set of those same
tools,
>> right?
>> Uh that are available to it, right? So
this AI tool that comes in also has not
just a raw computer uh because it's
going to be more token efficient to use
tools to get stuff done. In fact, I kind
of look at it and say our business which
today is an enduser tools business will
become essentially an infrastructure
business in support of agents doing
work. Is there another way to think
about it? Right? So if one of the things
that you'll see us do in in in fact like
all the stuff we built underneath M365
still is going to be very relevant uh
you need someplace to store it someplace
to do archival someplace to do discovery
someplace to manage all of these
activities even if you're an AI agent.
>> So that's so it's kind of a new
infrastructure. So ju just to make sure
I understand you're saying like look
theoretically a future AI that has
actual computer use which is all these
companies are working on model companies
are working right now could use even if
it's not partnered with Microsoft or
under our umbrella could use Microsoft
software but you're saying we're going
to give them if if you're working with
our infrastructure we're going to give
you like lower level access that makes
it more efficient for you to do the same
things you could have otherwise done
anyways.
>> 100%. I mean so the entire thing in in
fact the way the you know like what
happened is we had servers then there
was virtualization and they had many
more servers. So that's another way to
think about this which is hey don't
think of this the tool as the end thing
what is the entire substrate underneath
that tool that humans use and that
entire substrate is the bootstrap for
the AI agent as well because the AI
agent needs a computer that's kind of
one like you know so in fact one of the
fascinating things we're seeing a
significant amount of growth is all
these guys who are doing these office
artifacts and and what have you as
autonomous agents and so on want to
provision Windows 365 right? They really
want to be able to provision a computer
for these agents. Uh and so absolutely
and that's where I think we're going to
have essentially an enduser computing
infrastructure business which I think is
going to just keep growing because guess
what it's going to grow faster than the
number of users. So in fact that's kind
of one of the other questions people ask
me is hey what happens to the per user
business at least the early signs may be
the way to think about the per user
business is not just per user it's per
agent and if you sort of say it's per
user and per agent the key is what's the
stuff to provision for every agent a
computer u a set of security things
around it an identity around it uh and
all those things observability and so on
are the management layers and that's I
think all going to get baked into that
>> the way to frame it at least the way I
currently think about it and I'd like to
hear your you know your view is that
>> uh these model companies are all
building environments to train their
models to use Excel or Amazon shopping
or whatever whatever it is book flights
um but at the same time they're also
training these models to do migration
from because that that is probably the
most immediate uh valuable thing right
converting mainframe based systems to
standard cloud systems converting um
Excel databases into real databases uh
with SQL, right? Or or converting um you
know what is done in Word and Excel to
something that is more programmatic and
more efficient in a classical sense that
can actually be done by humans as well.
It's just not cost-ffective for the
software developer to do that. That
seems to be what everyone is going to do
with AI for the next, you know, few
years at least to massively drive value.
Um h how does Microsoft fit into that?
if the models can utilize the tools
themselves to migrate to something and
yes Microsoft has you know a leadership
position in databases and in storage and
and in all these other categories but
the use of say a office ecosystem is
going to be significantly less just like
potentially the use of a mainframe
ecosystem could be potentially less now
mainframes have grown for the last two
decades actually even though no one
talks about them anymore they've still
grown 100% I [laughter] agree with that
how does how does that flow forward
>> I mean at the end of the day This is not
about sort of hey u there is going to be
a significant amount of time where
there's going to be a hybrid world right
because people are going to be using the
tools that are going to be working with
agents that have to use tools and by the
way they have to communicate with each
other what's the artifact I generate
that then a human needs to see so like
all of these things will be real
considerations in any place so the
outputs input so I don't think it'll
just be about oh I migrate it off right
but the bottom line is I have to live in
this hybrid world so let's but that
doesn't fully answer your question
because there can be a real new
efficient frontier where I it's just
agents working with agents uh and
completely optimizing and even when
agents are working with agents what are
the primitives that are needed uh do you
need a storage system
>> uh does that storage system need to have
eiscocovery does that eiscocovery do you
need to have observability do you need
to have an identity system that is going
to use multiple models with all having
one identity system so these are all the
core underlying rails we have today for
what are office systems or what have
you. Uh and that's what I think we will
have in the future as well. You talked
about databases, right? I mean take you
know man I would love all of Excel to
have a database backend, right? In fact
I would love for all that to happen
immediately. Uh and that database is a
good database. I mean databases in fact
will be a big thing that'll grow. uh in
fact if I think about all of the office
artifacts uh being structured better the
ability to do the joins between
structured and unstructured better
because of the agenting what that'll
grow the underlying what is
infrastructure business it happens the
consumption of that is all being driven
by agents you could say all that is just
in time generated software by a model
company that could also be true if we we
will be one such model company too uh
and so we will build in so the
competition could be uh that we will
build a model plus all the
infrastructure and provision it and then
there will be competition between a
bunch of those folks who can do that. H
um I guess speaking of model companies
you say okay we will also be one of the
not only will we have the infrastructure
we'll have the model itself right now
Microsoft AI's most recent model that
was released 2 months ago is 36 and
Shabbat arena and there's a I mean you
obviously have the IP rights to open so
there's a question of first to the
extent you agree with that it seems to
be behind why is that the case
especially given the fact that you could
um you theoretically have the right to
just like fork open's monor repo or
distill on their models Um yeah,
especially if it's a big part of your
strategy that we need to have a leading
model company.
>> Yeah. I mean, so first of all, we are
absolutely going to use the OpenAI
models uh to the maximum uh across all
of our products, right? I mean, that's I
think the core thing that we're going to
continue to do all the way for the next
seven years. Uh and not just use it uh
but then add value to it. That's kind of
where the analyst in this Excel agent
and these are all things that we will do
where you know we'll do I'll you know RL
fine-tuning we'll do some mid-training
runs on top of a GPT family where we
have unique data assets and build
capability
um the MI model the way I think we're
going to think about it is the the good
news here in fact with the new agreement
is even we can be very very clear that
we're going to build a worldclass super
intelligence team and go after it with
high ambition but that at the same time.
We're also going to use this time to be
smart about how to use both these
things. So that means we will on one end
be very product focused on on the other
end be very research focused. In other
words, uh because we have access uh to
the GPT family. The last thing I don't
want to do is use my flops in a way that
is just duplicative and doesn't add much
value. So I want to be able to take uh
the flops that we use to generate a GPT
family [snorts] and maximize its value
while my MAI flops are being used for
let's take the image model that we
launched which I think just launched uh
it's a number nine in the uh image arena
you know we're using it you know both
for cost optimization it's on copilot
it's in Bing and we're going to use that
we have a audio model in copilot which
it's got personality and what have you
optimized it for our product So we will
do those even on the LM Marina we
started on the text one I think it was
it debuted at night 13 and by the way it
was it was done only on whatever 15,000
uh H100s and so it was a very small
model and uh so it was again to prove
out uh the core capability the
instruction following and everything
else which but you know we wanted to
make sure we can match what was
state-of-the-art and so that shows us
given scaling laws what we are capable
of doing if you gave more flops to it
right so the next thing we will is an
omni model where we will take sort of
the work we've done in audio, what we've
done in image and what we've done in
text, that'll be the next pit stop on
the MAI side. So when I think about the
MAI road map, we're going to build a
first class super intelligence team.
We're going to continue to drop and do
on in the open some of these models,
they will either be in our products
being used because they're going to be
latency friendly, cogs friendly, or what
have you, or they'll have some special
capability. and we will do real research
in order to be ready for some next five,
six, seven, eight break breakthroughs uh
that are all needed on this march
towards super intelligence. So I think
that's and while exploiting
the advantage we have of having the GPT
family that we can work on top of as
well.
>> Say we roll forward seven years uh you
no longer have access to open AI models.
what does one get confidence or what
does Microsoft do to make sure they are
leading or have a leading AI lab right
today you know it's it's all open has
developed many of the breakthroughs
whether it be scaling or reasoning or
Google's developed all the breakthroughs
like transformers uh but but it it is
also a big talent game right you know
you've seen meta spend you know north
of20 billion on talent right uh you've
seen anthropic uh poach the entire blue
shift reasoning team from Google last
year you've seen meta poach a large
reasoning and post training team from
Google more recently. These these sorts
of talent wars are very capital
intensive. They're the ones that, you
know, arguably, you know, if you're
spending hundred billion dollars on
infrastructure, you should also spend,
you know, x amount of money on on the
people using the infrastructure so that
they're more efficiently making these
new breakthroughs. what what confidence
can one get that you know hey Microsoft
will have a team that's world class that
can make these breakthroughs and you
know once you decide to turn on the
money faucet you know you're being a bit
capital efficient right now which is
which is smart it seems uh to not waste
money doing duplicative work but once
you decide you need to you know how how
can one say oh yeah now you can shoot up
to where the top five model
>> well look I mean at the at the end of
the day we're going to build a
world-class team and we already have a
world-class team that's beginning to be
sort of assembled right Mustafa coming
in. We have Karen. We have Amar
Subramanyan who did a lot of the post
training at Gemini. Tufi who is at
Microsoft. Nando who did a lot of the
multimedia work at Deep Mind is there.
And so we're going to build a worldclass
team. And in fact I think later this
week even Mustafa published some you
know a little more clarity on what our
lab is going to go do. Um I think the
thing that I want uh the world to know
perhaps uh is we are going to build the
infrastructure that'll support multiple
models. Uh you know uh we because from a
hypers scale perspective we want to
build the most scaled infrastructure
fleet that's capable of supporting all
the models the world needs whether it's
from open source or whether it's
obviously from open AI and others and so
that's kind of one job. Second is in our
own model capability. We will absolutely
use the open AI model in our products
and we will start building our own
models and we may like in in GitHub
copilot anthropic is used. So we will
even have other frontier models that are
going to be wrapped into our products as
well. So I think that that's kind of how
at least each time at the end of the day
the eval of the product as it meets a
particular task or a job is what matters
and we'll sort of back from there into
the vertical integration needed. uh
knowing that as long as you're service
you know you're serving the market well
with the product you can always cost
optimize
>> there there's a question going forward
so right now we have models that have
this distinction between training and
inference and one could argue that
there's like a smaller and smaller
difference between the different models
um going forward if you're really
expecting something like human level
intelligence humans learn on the job you
know if you think about your last 30
years what makes s token so valuable
it's the last 30 years of wisdom and
experience you've gained at Microsoft
Um and we will eventually have models if
they get to human level which will have
this ability to continuously learn on
the job and that will drive so much
value to the model company that is ahead
at least in my view because you have
copies of one model broadly deployed
through the economy learning how to do
every single job and unlike humans they
can amalgamate their learnings to that
model. So there's this sort of
continuous learning sort of exponential
feedback loop um which almost looks like
a sort of intelligence explosion. uh if
that happens and Microsoft isn't the
leading model company by that time
doesn't then this uh you know you're
saying well we substitute one model for
another etc matter less because it's
just like this one model knows how to do
every single job of the economy the
other long tale of don't
>> yeah no I think your point about if
there's one model that is the only model
that is most broadly deployed in the
world and it sees all the data and it
does continuous learning that's game set
match and you know is shut right I mean
the the reality at least I see um is the
world even today for all the dominance
of any one model it's not the case um
it's like take any take coding there's
multiple models in fact every day it's
less the case where there is not one
model that is getting deployed broadly
in fact there's multiple models that are
getting deployed it's kind of like
databases right it's always the thing
it's like hey can one database be the
one that just is used everywhere except
it's not uh there are multiple types of
databases that are getting deployed uh
for different use cases. So I think that
there is going to be some network
effects of continual learning or data
you you know I'll call liquidity that
any one model has. Uh is it going to
happen in all domains? I don't think so.
Is it going to happen in all geos? I
don't think so. Is it going to happen in
all segments? I don't think so. It'll
happen in all categories at the same
time. I don't think so. So therefore I
feel like the design space is so large
uh that there's plenty of opportunity
but your fundamental point is having a
capability which is at the
infrastructure layer, model layer and at
the scaffolding layer and then to be
able to compose these things not just as
a vertical stack but to be able to
compose each thing for what its purpose
is. Right? You can't build an
infrastructure that's optimized for one
model. If you do that what if you go
fall behind? In fact, all the
infrastructure you built will be a
waste, right? You kind of need to build
an infrastructure that's capable of
supporting multiple sort of families and
lineages of models. Otherwise, the
capital you put in which is optimized
for one model architecture. That means
you're one tweak away from some like
breakthrough that happens for somebody
else and your entire network topology
goes out of the window. Then that's a
scary thing, right? So therefore, you
kind of want the infrastructure to
support whatever may come. in fact in
your own model family and other model
families and you got to be open if you
if you're serious about the hypers scale
business you got to be serious about
that right um if you're serious about
being a model company you've got to
basically say hey what are the ways
people can actually do things on top of
the model so that I can have an ISV
ecosystem unless I'm thinking I'll own
every category that just can't be that
then you won't have an API business and
that by definition will mean you'll
never be uh a platform company that's
going to be successfully deployed
everywhere right So therefore the
industry structure is so such that it
will
really force people to specialize and
[snorts] that in that specialization
a company like Microsoft should compete
in each layer by its merits uh but not
think that this is all about all a road
to game set match where I just compose
vertically all these layers. That's that
just doesn't happen. So according to
Dylan's numbers, there's going to be
half a trillion in AI capex next year
alone, and labs are already spending
billions of dollars to snag top
researcher talent. But none of that
matters if there's not enough
highquality data to train on. Without
the right data, even the most advanced
infrastructure and world-class talent
won't translate into end value for the
user. That's where Libox comes in. Libox
produces highquality data at massive
scale, powering any capability that you
want your model to have. It doesn't
matter whether you need a coding agent
that needs detailed feedback on
multi-our trajectories or a robotics
model that needs thousands of samples on
everyday tasks or a voice agent that can
also perform real world actions for the
user like booking them a flight. To be
clear, this isn't just off-the-shelf
data. Labelbox can design and launch a
custom production scale data pipeline in
48 hours and they can get you tens of
thousands of targeted examples in weeks.
Reach out at labelbox.com/darkh.
All right, back to Satia.
>> So last year Microsoft was on path to be
the largest infrastructure provider uh
by far. You were the earliest in 23. So
you you went out there, you acquired all
the resources in terms of leasing data
center, starting construction, securing
power, everything. You guys were on pace
to beat Amazon in 26 or 27. Um but
certainly by 28, you were going to beat
them. Um since then, you you know, in
let's call it the second half of last
year, Microsoft did this big pause,
right, where they let go of a bunch of
leasing sites that they were going to
take, which then Google, Meta, um
Amazon, in some cases, Oracle, uh took
these sites. We're sitting in one of the
largest data centers in the world. So
obviously it's not everything. You guys
are expanding like crazy. Uh but there
are sites that you just stopped working
on.
>> Why why did you do this? Right.
>> Yeah. I mean the fundamental thing we
this goes back a little bit to what is
the hypers scale business all about
right which is one of the key decisions
we made was that if you're going to
build out Azure to be fantastic for all
sort of stages of AI uh from training to
mid-training to data genen to inference
we just need fungibility uh of the fleet
um and and so that entire thing caused
us not to basically go build a a whole
lot of capacity with a particular set of
generations. Uh because the other thing
that you got to realize is having
actually for up to now 10xed every 18
months enough training capacity for the
various open AI models. uh we realize
that um the key is to stay on that path
but the more important thing is to
actually have a balance to not just
train but to be able to serve these
models all around the world because at
the end of the day the rate of
monetization is what then will allow us
to even keep uh funding and then the
infrastructure was going to need us to
support as I said multiple models and
what have you. So once we said that
that's the case since then we just
course corrected to where the path we're
on right if I look at the path we're on
is we're doing lot more starts now uh
we're also buying up as much capacity as
we can whether it's to build whether
it's to lease or even GPUs as a service
but we're building it for where we see
the demand uh and the serving needs and
our training needs and we didn't want to
just be a host for one company uh and
have just a massive book of business
with one customer that that's not a
business right that is sort of uh you
know you should be vertically integrated
with that company uh and so given the
the thing that openai was going to be a
successful independent company which is
fantastic right I think it's makes sense
right and even meta may use third party
capacity but ultimately they're all
going to be first party uh for anyone
who has large scale they'll be you know
they'll be a hyperscaler on their own
and so to me was to build out a hypers
scale fleet and our own research
compute. Uh and that's what the
adjustment was. Um you know and then and
so I feel very very good. Oh by the way
the other thing is I didn't want to get
stuck with massive scale of one
generation. I mean we just saw the the
GB200s. I mean the GB300's are coming
right and by the time I get to Vera
Rubin Ver Rubin ultra guess what the
data center is going to look very
different because the power per rack
power per row is going to be so
different uh the cooling requirements
are going to be so different and that
that means I don't want to just go build
out like a whole number of gigawatts
that are only for one generation one
family and so I think the pacing matters
and the funibility and the location
matters
uh the workload diversity matters,
customer diversity matters and that's
what we're building towards. The other
thing that we've learned a lot is um
every AI workload does require not only
the AI accelerator but it requires a
whole lot of other things right and in
fact a lot of the margin structure for
us will be in those other things and so
therefore we want to build out Azure as
being fantastic for the long tail of the
workloads because that's the hypers
scale business while knowing that we've
got to be super competitive starting
with the bare metal for the highest end
training And but that can't crowd out
the rest of the business, right? Because
we're not in the business of just doing
five contracts with five customers being
their bare metal service. That's not a a
Microsoft business. That may be a
business for someone else and that's a
good thing. What we have said is we are
in the hypers scale business which is at
the end of the day a longtail business
uh for AI workloads and in order to do
that we will have some leading bare
metal as a service capabilities for a
set of models including our own uh and
that I think is the balance you see the
another sort of question that comes
around this whole fungeibility topic is
okay it's not where you want it right
you would rather have it in a good
population center like Atlanta we're
here um there there's there's There's
also the question of like well how much
does that matter if as the horizon of AI
tasks grows well actually you know 30
seconds for a reasoning prompt or you
know 30 minutes for a deep research or
you know it's going to be hours for
software agents at some point um and
days and so on and so forth the time to
human interaction why does it matter if
it's if it's a great it's a great
question
>> a location A B or C
>> that's exactly right so in fact that's
one of the other reasons why we want to
think about like hey what is an Azure
region look like and what is the in fact
the networking between Azure regions. So
this is where uh I think as the model
capabilities evolve and I think the
usage of these tokens whether it's
synchronously or asynchronously evolves
and in fact you don't want to be out of
position right then on top of that by
the way what are the data residency laws
right where do I like I mean the entire
EU thing uh for us where we literally
had to create an EU data boundary
basically meant that you can't just
round trip a call to wherever even if
it's asynchronous and so therefore you
need to have maybe regional things that
are high density and then the power
costs and so on. But you're 100% right
in bringing up that the topology as we
build out uh will have to evolve one for
tokens per dollar per watt uh what are
the economics
overlay that with what is the usage
pattern um usage pattern in terms of
synchronous asynchronous but also what
is the compute storage because the
latencies may matter for certain things
uh the storage better be there if I have
a Cosmos DB close to this for session
data or even for an autonomous thing
then that also has to be somewhere close
to it and so on. So I think that all of
those considerations is what will shape
uh the hypers scale business. M
>> you know prior to the pause you were you
were you you know versus you know what
we had forecasted for you by 28 you're
going to be like 12 13 gawatt and now
we're at you know 9 and a half or so
right but you know something that's even
more relevant right and it's it's you
know I just want you to like more
concretely state that this is the
business you don't want to be in but
like Oracle is going from like 1/5if
your size to bigger than you by end of
2027 and while it's not a Microsoft
level quality of return on invested
capital right they're still making 35%
gross margins, right? sort of the
question is like does it is it isn't it
is it is it you know hey it's not
Microsoft's business to maybe do this
but you've created a hyperscaler now by
refusing this business by giving away
the right of first refusal whatever I'm
not first of all I don't I don't want to
take away any thing from the success
Oracle has had in building their
business and I wish them well and so the
thing that I think I've answered for you
is it didn't make sense for us uh to go
be a host for one model company uh with
limited time horizon RPO let's let's
just put it that way right the thing
that you have to think through is not
what you do in the next 5 years but what
do you do for the next 50 uh because
that's kind of what I we made our set of
decisions um I feel very good about our
open AI partnership and what we're doing
we have a decent book a book book of
business we wish them a lot of success
in fact we are buyers even of Oracle
capacity we wish them success but you
know at this point. I think the
industrial logic for what we're trying
to do is pretty clear which is it's not
about like chasing I first of all I
track by the way your uh things whether
it's the AWS or the Google and ours
which I think is super useful uh but
doesn't mean I got to chase those uh I
have to chase them for not just uh the
gross margin that they may represent in
a period of time you know does m what
what is this book of business that
Microsoft uniquely can go clear which
makes sense for us to clear and that's
what we'll do. I I guess I have a
question even stepping back from this of
okay I I take your point that it's a
better business to be in all else equal
to have a long tale of customers you can
have higher margin from rather than just
serving bare metal to a few labs but
then there's a question of okay which
way is the industry evolving and so if
we believe we're on the path to smarter
and smarter AIs then why isn't the shape
of the industry that the open AIs and
anthropics and deep minds are the
platform which the long tale of
enterprises are actually doing business
with where they need bare metal but like
they are the platform. What is the
longtail that is directly using Azure um
because you know you you want to use the
general
>> going to be available on Azure right? So
any workload that says hey I want to use
um you know some open source model and
an open AI model like I mean if you go
to Azure foundry today you have all
these models that you can provision buy
PTUs get a cosmos DB get a SQL DB get
some storage get some compute that's
what a real workload looks like a real
workload is not just hey I did an API
call to a model a real workload needs
all of these things to go build an app
or instantiate an application in fact
the model companies need that right to
build anything it's just not like I have
a token factory I have to have all of
these things that's the hypers scale
business uh and it's not any one model
but all these models and so if you want
grock plus let's say uh open AI plus an
open source model come to Azure foundry
provision them build your application
here is a database that's kind of what
the business is uh you there is a
separate business called just selling
raw bare metal services to model
companies and that's the argument about
how much of that business you want to be
in and not be in and what is that it's a
very different segment of the business
which we are in and we also have limits
to how much of it is going to crowd out
the rest of it. Uh but that's kind of at
least the way I look at it. So, so
there's there's sort of two questions
here, right? Like why why couldn't you
just do both is one and then the other
one is um given, you know, our our
estimates on what your capacity is in
2028 is 3 and a half gigawatts lower.
Sure, you could have dedicated that to
OpenAI training and inference capacity,
but you could have also dedicated that
to hey the this three and a half
gigawatts is actually just running Azure
is running Microsoft 365 that's running
GitHub copilot. it doesn't actually I
could have built it and not given it to
open AAI
>> or I may want to build it in a different
location. I may want to build it in UAE.
I may want to build it in India. I may
want to build it in Europe. Right? So
one of the other things is as I said
like where we have real capacity
constraints right now are given the
regulatory needs and the data
sovereignty needs. We got to build all
over the world. Uh it's first of all
state side capacity is super important
and we're going to build everything. But
one of the things is when I look out to
2030 uh I have a sort of a global view
of what does Microsoft shape of business
by first party and third party third
party segmented by the frontier collabs
and their how much they want versus the
inference capacity we want to build for
multiple models um and our own research
compute needs right so that's all what's
going into my calculus versus saying hey
um I think you're rightfully pointing
out the pause but the pause was not done
because we said oh my god we don't want
to build that we realized that oh we
want to build what we want to build
slightly differently uh by both workload
type as well as geo type and timing as
well like we'll keep ramping up our
gigawatts and the question is at what
pace and in what location and in what
sort of how do I write even the mos's
law on it right which is do I really
want to overbuild 3 and a half in 27 or
do I want to spread that in 2728 knowing
even one of the biggest learnings we had
even with Nvidia is their pace increased
uh in terms of their model I mean their
migrations so that was a big factor I
didn't want to go get stuck for four
years 5 years of depreciation on one uh
generation and I wanted to just
basically buy like in fact Jensen's
advice to me was two things one is hey
get on the speed of light execution
that's why I think even the execution in
this Atlanta data center I mean like in
90 days right between when we get it and
to hand off to a real workload. that's
sort of real speed of light execution on
their front and so I wanted to get good
at that and then that way then I'm
building this each generation and
scaling uh and then every 5 years then
you have a much more balanced so it
becomes really literally like a flow uh
for a large scale industrial operation
like this where you suddenly are not
lopsided where you built up a lot in one
time and then you take a ma massive
hiatus because you're stuck with all
this to your point in one location which
may be great for training, may not be
great for infants because I can't serve
even if it's like it's all asynchronous,
but Europe ain't going to let me round
trip to Texas. So, that's all of the
things.
>> How do I rationalize this statement with
what you've done over the last few
weeks? You've announced deals with Iris
Energy, um with Nebius, um and Lambda
Labs, and there's a few more coming as
well. Uh you're you're going out there
and securing capacity that you're
renting from the Neoclouds, um rather
than having built it yourself. What was
the what was
>> I think it's it's fine for us because we
now have you know when you have line of
sight to demand which can be served
where people are building it it's great
in fact we'll even have I would say you
know we will take leases we will take
build to suite we'll take even GPUs as a
service where we don't have capacity but
we need capacity and someone else has
that uh and by the way I would even sort
of welcome every Neocloud to just be
part of our marketplace uh because again
guess what if if they go bring their
capacity into our marketplace. That
customer who comes through Azure will
use the Neocloud which is a great win
for them and we'll use compute, storage,
databases, all the rest from Azure. So
I'm not at all thinking of this as just
a you know hey I should just gobble up
all of that myself. M um so you
mentioned the how the you know you're
depreciating this asset that's 5 six
years and this is the majority of the
you know 75% of the TCO of a data center
and Jensen is taking a 75% margin on
that so what all the hyperscalers are
trying to do is develop their own
accelerator so that they can reduce this
overwhelming cost for um uh equipment to
increase their margins.
>> Yeah. And then and then like you know
when you look at where they are right
Google's way ahead of everyone else
right they've been doing it for the
longest they're going to make something
like 5 to 7 million chips right of their
own TPUs you look at Amazon they're
trying to make 3 to 5 million but when
we look at what you know Microsoft is is
ordering of their own chips it's it's
it's way below that number um you've had
a program for just as long what's going
on with your internal
>> good question so so the couple of things
one is the thing that is the biggest
competitor for any new accelerator is
kind of even the previous generation of
Nvidia right I mean in a fleet what I'm
going to look at is the overall TCO so
the bar I have even for our own and
which by the way you know I was just
looking at the data for Maya 200 which
looks great um a except that one of the
things that we learned even on the
compute side right which is we had a lot
of Intel then we introduced AMD and then
we introduced cobalt and so that's kind
of how we scaled it and so we have good
um sort of existence proof of at least
in core compute on how to build your own
silicon and then manage a fleet where
all three are at play in some balance.
Uh because by the way even Google's
buying Nvidia and so is uh Amazon. It
makes sense because Nvidia is innovating
and it's the general purpose thing. All
models run on it. Uh and customer demand
is there because if you build your own
vertical thing, you better have your own
model uh which is you know either going
to use it for training or inference and
you have to generate your own demand for
it or subsidize the demand for it. So
therefore you want to uh make sure um
you scale it appropriately. So the way
we're going to go do it is um have a
closed loop between our own MAI models
and our silicon because I feel like
that's the that's what gives you the
birthright to really do your own silicon
right where you literally have uh
designed the micro architecture with
what you're doing and then you keep pace
with your own models. Um in our case the
the good news here is OpenAI has a
program uh which we have access to. Um
and so therefore to think that Microsoft
is not going to have something that's
>> what level of access do you have to that
>> all of it.
>> You just get the IP for all of that. So
the only IP you don't have is a consumer
hardware.
>> That's it.
>> Oh wow. Okay.
>> Yeah.
Interesting. [laughter]
>> Yeah. And by the way we gave them a
bunch of IP as well to bootstrap them.
Right. So this is one of the reasons why
they had a mass because we built all
these supercomputers together uh or we
built it for them and they uh benefited
from it rightfully so and uh and now as
they innovate even at the system level
we get access to all of it uh and uh we
first wants to want to instantiate what
they build uh for them uh but then we'll
extend it and so to think that we don't
have and so if anything the way I I
think about to your question is
Microsoft wants wants to be a fantastic
I'll call it speed of light execution
partner for Nvidia because quite frankly
that fleet uh is life itself. I'm not
worried about I mean obviously Jensen is
doing super well with his margins but
the TCO has many dimensions to it and I
want to be great at that TCO. Uh on top
of that, I want to be able to sort of
really work with the OpenAI lineage uh
and the MAI lineage and the system
design knowing that we have the IP
rights on both ends.
>> Uh speaking of rights, one thing you
know, you had an interview a couple days
ago uh where you said that we have
rights to the the new agreement you made
with OpenAI. have right the exclusivity
to the stateless API calls that OpenAI
makes and we were sort of confused about
if there's any state whatsoever. I mean
you were just mentioning a second ago
that all these complicated workloads
that are coming up are going to require
memory and databases and storage and so
forth and is that now not stateless of
chat GPT is storing stuff on
>> that's the reason why so the the thing
the business the strategic decision we
made and also accommodating for the
flexibility open AI needed in order to
be able to procure compute for
essentially think of open AI having um a
pass business and a SAS business SAS
business is chat GPT
that pass business is their API.
>> That API is Azure exclusive.
>> The SAS business, they can run it
anywhere
>> and they can partner with anyone they
want to to build SAS products.
>> So if they want to partner and the
partner wants to use a a stateless API,
then Azure is the place where they can
get the stateless API.
>> It seems like there's a way for them to
make you you know build the product
together and and it's a state.
>> No, even that they'll have to come to
Azure. Okay. So if it is any partner and
so so fundamentally you know so again
this is done in the spirit of what is it
that we valued as part of our
partnership and we made sure while at
the same time we were good partners to
open AAI given all the flexibility they
need. So for example, Salesforce wants
to integrate OpenAI. It's not through an
API. They actually work together, train
a model together, deploy it on let's say
Amazon. Now is that is that allowed or
uh or do they have to use
>> for any custom agreement like that? They
will have to come run it. There are some
few exceptions to US government and so
on that we made, but other than that,
they'll have to come to Azure.
>> So as s explained, as AI agents get more
capable, you're going to need more and
more observability into what they're
doing. You're going to need to catch
them when they're making mistakes.
You're going to need highle summaries of
what they're doing and you're going to
need a picture of how everything that
they're doing fits together. This is
exactly what Code Rabbit provides. You
just make a normal pull request and Code
Rabbit automatically reviews the PR. It
generates a summary of changes so you
can understand exactly what the PR's
author was intending and it uses the
context from your full code base to
provide line by line feedback on how
things could be improved. This is
helpful whether you're reviewing a PR
from a co-orker or an agent. In either
case, Code Rabbit will write up its
thoughts and flag any issues so that
your teammate or your agent can [music]
go fix them. I've noticed that when I'm
coding with agents, Code Rabbit catches
a lot of mistakes that the models make
by default. [music] For example, the
models have a bad habit of using old
versions of libraries. So, in one
session, I watch Code Rabbit [music]
cache a call to an old model, figure out
what the new version was, and then
suggest that improvement. Go to code
rabbit.a a/4
to learn more.
>> Stepping back, a question I have is, you
know, when we were walking back and
forth with the factory, one of the
things we're talking about is, you know,
Microsoft, you can think of it as a
software business, but now it's really
becoming an industrial business. Uh,
there's all this capex, there's all this
construction, and if you just look over
the last two um two years, your sort of
capex is like tripled. And maybe you
extrapolate that forward. It just
actually just becomes this huge
industrial uh explosion.
>> Well, their hyperscalers are taking
loans, right? Meta's Meta's done a $20
billion loan at Louisiana. They've take
they've done a corporate loan. It seems
clear everyone's free cash flow is going
to zero. Um which is which I'm sure Amy
is like going to beat you up for for
even if you even try to do that. But
like uh what what what's happening? I
mean I think I think the structural
change um is what you're referencing
which I think is massive right which is
I I describe it as we are now a capital
intensive business and a knowledge
intensive business and in fact we have
to use our knowledge to increase the
ROIC on the capital spend right because
that's kind you know look the hardware
guys have done a great job uh of
marketing the morals law which I think
is unbelievable and it's great but if
you even look I think some of the stats
I even did in my earnings call which is
for a given GPT family right uh the
improvement software improvements of
really throughput in terms of tokens per
dollar per watt that we're able to get
uh you know quarter over quarter year
over year is massive uh right so it's 5x
10x maybe 40x in some of these cases
right just because uh how you can
optimize that's sort of knowledge intens
intensity coming to bring out capital
efficiency
>> so that at at some level the that's what
we have to master. What does it mean?
Like somebody people ask me what was the
difference between uh you know a classic
oldtime host and a hyperscaler it was
software. So yes it is capital intensive
but as long as you have systems knowhow
software capability to optimize by
workload by fleet that's why I think
when when we say fungeibility
there's so much software in it. It's
just not about the fleet, right? It's
kind of the ability to evict a workload,
you know, and then schedule another
workload. Can I like manage the that
algorithm of scheduling around u that is
the type of stuff that we have to be
world class at? And so yes, so I think
we'll still remain a software company.
>> Uh but yes, this is a different
business. Um and we're going to manage.
Look, I think at the end of the day, uh
the cash flow that Microsoft has allows
us to have um both these arms firing,
you know, uh well,
>> it seems like in the short term you have
more sort of um credence on things
taking a while, being more jagged, but
in the maybe in the long term, you think
like the people who say talk about AGI
and ASI are correct like Sam Sam will be
right, but eventually. Um and I I have a
broader question about what makes sense
for a hyperscaler to do given that you
have to invest massively in this thing
which depreciates over 5 years. So so
you if you have 2040 timelines to the
kind of thing that somebody like Sam
anticipates in three years um you know
what what is a reasonable thing for you
to do in that world? there needs to be
an allocation
uh to I'll call it research compute
>> that needs to be done like you did R&D
>> right so that's the best way to even
account for it quite frankly we should
think of it as just R&D expense and you
should say hey what's the research
computer and know how do you want to
scale it
>> um and let's [clears throat] even say
it's an order of magnitude scale um in
some period pick your thing is it two
years is it 16 months what have you
Right. So that's sort of one piece which
is kind of that's kind of table stakes.
That's R&D expenses and the rest is all
demand driven. Right. I mean ultimately
you can you have to build ahead of
demand but you better have a demand uh
uh plan uh that doesn't go completely
offkilter. Do you buy so these labs are
now projecting revenues of 100 billion
in 2728
uh and they're projecting you know
revenue keeps growing at this rate of
like 3x 2x a year
>> a lot in the marketplace right there's
all kinds of incentives right now and
and rightfully so right I mean what what
do you expect an independent lab that is
sort of trying to raise money to do
right they have to put some numbers out
there such that they can actually go
raise money so that they can pay their
bills for compute and what have you and
it's And it's good thing I someone's
going to take some risk and put it in
there and they've shown traction. It's
not like it's all risk without seeing
the fact that they've been performing
whether it's open AAI, whether it's
anthropic. So I feel great about what
they've done.
>> Uh and we have massive book of business
with these Japs. So therefore uh that's
all good.
>> But overall
ultimately there's two simple things.
One is you got to allocate for R&D. You
brought up even talent. You got to like
the talent for AI is at a premium. You
got to spend there. You got to spend on
compute. So in some sense researcher to
GPU ratios have to be high. Uh that is
sort of what it takes to be a leading
R&D company in this world. Uh and that's
something that needs to scale. Um and
you have to have a balance sheet that
allows you to scale that long before
it's conventional wisdom and so on. So
that's kind of one thing. But the other
is all about sort of knowing how to
forecast
>> as we look across the world right
America has dominated many tech stacks
right um the US owns Windows right
through Microsoft which is deployed even
in China right that's the main operating
system um of course there's Linux which
is open source but you know Windows is
deployed everywhere in China on personal
computers um you look at you look at
word it's it's deployed everywhere you
look at all these various technologies
it's deployed everywhere the thing that
is quite unique and and and Microsoft
and other companies have grown
elsewhere, right? they've built they're
building data centers in Europe and in
India and in and in all these other you
know in Southeast Asia and in Latam in
Africa right all of these different
places you're building capacity but this
seems quite different right you know to
today the political aspect of technology
of compute you know you know the US
administration didn't care about the
dotcom bubble right um it seems like the
US administration as well as every other
administration around the world cares a
lot about AI and the question is you
know we we're in sort of a bipolar world
at least with US and China but Europe
and and India and all these other
countries are are saying no actually
we're going to have sovereign AI as
well. How does Microsoft navigate, you
know, the difference of the 90s where
it's like there's one country in the
world that matters, right? It's America
and we do our companies sell everywhere
and therefore Microsoft benefits
massively to a world where it is bipolar
where hey Microsoft can't just
necessarily have the right to win all of
Europe or India or you know Singapore.
There's actually sovereign AI efforts.
What what is your thought process here
and how do you think about this? It's
it's I think a super you know critical
um piece which is um I think that the
key key priority for the US tech sector
and the US government is to ensure that
we not only do leading innovative work
but we also collectively build trust
around the world on our tech stack right
because I always say the United States
is just an unbelievable place It's just
unique in history, right? It's 4% of the
world's population, 25% of the GDP, and
50% of the market cap. And I think you
should think about those ratios and uh
really and reflect on it. that 50%
happens because quite frankly the trust
the world has in the United States
whether it's its capital markets or
whether it's its technology and and its
stewardship of what matters at any given
time in terms of leading uh sector. So
if that is broken uh then that's not a
good day for the United States. And so
if we start with that which I think the
you know President Trump gets, the White
House, David Sachs, everyone uh really I
think gets it. Uh and so therefore I
applaud anything that the United States
government and the tech sector jointly
does to quite frankly for example put
our own capital at risk collectively as
an industry in every part of the world.
Right? So I would like in fact the USG
to take credit for foreign direct
investment by American companies all
over the world right it's kind of like
uh least talked about but the best
marketing that the United States should
be doing is it's not just about all the
foreign direct investment coming into
the United States but the most leading
sector which is these AI factories are
all being created all over the world by
whom by America and American companies
and so you start there and Then you even
build other agreements around it which
are around their continuity, their
legitimate sovereignty concerns around
whether it's data residency, whether
it's even what happens um uh for them to
have real agency and guarantees uh on
privacy and so on and so that in fact
our European commitments I think are
worth reading. Right? So we made a
series of commitments to Europe on how
we will really govern our hypers scale
investment there uh such that really
European uh union and the European
countries have sovereignty. We're also
building sovereign clouds in in France
and in Germany. We have something called
sovereign services on Azure which
literally give people key management
services along with confidential
computing including confidential
computing in GPUs which we've done great
innovative work with Nvidia. Um and so I
think I feel very very good about being
able to build both technically and
through policy this trust in the
American tech stack. M and how do you
see the shaking out as you know you do
have this uh network effect with
learning and things on the model level
maybe you have equivalent things at the
hyperscaler level as well and do you
expect that the countries will say look
it's clearly one model or a couple
models are the best and so we're going
to use them but we're going to have some
laws around well the weights have to be
hosted in our country or do you expect
that there will be uh this push to have
it has to be a model trained in our
country maybe an analogy here is like
people would you know the semiconductor
is very important to the economy and
people would like to have their sort of
sovereign semiconductors but like TSMC
is just better and so semiconductors are
so important to the economy that you
will just go to Taiwan and buy the
semiconductors you have to will it be
like that with AI or is there
>> um ultimately I think what matters is
the use of AI in their economy to create
economic value right I mean that's the
uh the diffusion theory which is
ultimately it's not the leading sector
but it's the ability to use the leading
technology to create your own
comparative advantage right so that I
think will fundamentally be the core
driver
>> but that said they will want continuity
of that right so in some sense that's
one of the reasons why I believe there's
always going to be a check a little bit
to sort of some of your points on hey
can this one model have all the runaway
deployment that's why open source is
always going to be there they will be by
definition uh multiple models that'll be
one way like it's kind of the you know
that's one way for people to sort of
demand continuity and not have
concentration risk is another way to say
it is right um and so you say hey I want
multiple models and then I want an open
source so I feel uh as long as that's
there every country will feel like okay
I don't have to worry about deploying
the best model and broadly diffusing
because I can always take uh what is my
data and my liquidity and move it uh to
another model whether it's open source
or from another country or what have
you. So concentration risk
>> um and sovereignty right which is really
agency those are the two things I think
that'll drive the market structure. The
the thing about this is that this
doesn't exist for semiconductors, right?
You know, all refrigerators, cars have
chips made in Taiwan.
>> It didn't exist until now. Until now,
everybody is now like like
>> even even then, right, America, you
know, if Taiwan is cut off, there is
there are no more cars, there are no
more refrigerators. TSMC Arizona is not
replacing any real fraction of the
production. Like there it is. It there
the sovereignty is a bit of like a a
scam, if you will, right? I mean, it's
it's worthwhile having it. It's
important to have it, but it's not a
real it's not real sovereignty, right?
And we're a global economy. We don't we
>> I think it's kind of like Dylan saying,
hey, at this point, we've not learned
anything about sort of uh what
resilience means and what one needs to
do, right? So, it's kind of
any nation state, including the United
States at this point, will do what it
takes to be more self-sufficient on some
of these critical supply chains.
So I as a multinational company have to
think about that as a first class
requirement right if I don't then I'm
not respecting what is in the sort of
policy interests of that country long
term right and I'm not saying they won't
make practical decisions in the short
term right absolutely I mean the
globalization can't just be rewound
right I mean all these capital
investments cannot be made uh in in a
way at the pace at which at the same
time you have to kind of like if I think
about it, right? If somebody showed up
in Washington and said, "Hey, you know,
you know what? We're not going to build
any semiconductor plans, they're going
to be kicked out of the United States."
Um, and and the same thing is going to
be the true in every other country, too.
Uh, and so therefore, I think we have to
as companies respect what the lessons
learned are. Um, you know, whether it's,
you know, you could say the pandemic
woke us up or whatever. But
nevertheless, people are saying, "Look,
globalization was fantastic.
uh it helped the supply chains be
globalized and be super efficient but
there's such a thing called resilience
and we are happy you know we want
resilience and so therefore that feature
will get built at what [snorts] pace I
think you point you're making it can't
be like you can't snap your fingers and
say all the TSMC plants now are all in
Arizona and with all of the capability
they're not going to be but is there a
plan there will be a plan and should we
respect that absolutely and so I I feel
that's the world I want to meet the
world where it is and what it wants to
do going forward as opposed to say hey
we have a point of view that doesn't
respect your view. M so ju just to make
sure I understand the idea here is each
country will want some kind of data
residency privacy etc. And Microsoft is
especially privileged here because you
have relationships with these countries
who have expertise in setting up these
kinds of sovereign data centers and
therefore Microsoft is uniquely fit for
a world with um more sovereignty
requirements.
>> Yeah. I mean I I I don't want to sort of
describe it as somehow we're uniquely
privileged. Uh I would just say I think
of that as a business requirement that
we have been doing all the hard work all
these decades and we plan to and so my
answer to Dylan's previous question was
I take these you know whether it's in
the United States quite frankly uh when
you know when the white house and the
USG says hey we want you to allocate
more of your I don't know wafer starts
to uh uh fabs in the US we take that
seriously.
or whether it is data center and the EU
boundary, we take that seriously. So to
me,
>> um respecting what I think are
legitimate reasons why countries care
about sovereignty and building for it as
a software and a physical plant is what
I I would say we are going to do. And as
we go to like the bipolar world, right,
US, China. Yeah. Um there is there is a
lot around,
>> you know, American tech does not, you
know, it's not just you versus Amazon,
um or you versus, you know, anthropic or
you versus Google. Yeah. There is a
whole host of competit competition. How
does how does America rebuild the trust?
What do you do to rebuild the trust to
say actually no, American companies will
be the main provider for you? Um and how
do you think about competition with up
and cominging Chinese companies whether
it be you know bite dance and Alibaba or
Deepseek and Moonshot
>> and so just add to the question one
concern is look we're talking about how
AI is becoming this sort of industrial
capex race uh where you're just rapidly
having to build quickly across all those
supply chain when you hear that at least
till now you just think about China
right this is like their comparative
advantage and especially if we're not
going to moonshot to ASI next year but
we it's going to be this decades of
buildouts and infrastructure and so
forth, how do you deal with Chinese
competition? Are they privileged in that
world?
>> Yeah. So, it's a great qu. I mean, in
fact, you just made the point of why I
think trust in American tech is probably
the most important feature. It's not
even the model capability.
Maybe it is like can I trust you the
company? Can I trust you? Your country
and its institutions to be a long-term
supplier may be the thing that wins the
world.
>> That's a good note to end on.
>> Yeah,
>> Satia, thank you for doing this.
>> Thank you so much. Thank you. It's such
a pleasure. Such a pleasure.
>> It's awesome. It's like, man, you two
guys are like quite the team. [laughter]
>> Hey everybody, I hope you enjoyed that
episode. If you did, the most helpful
thing you can do is just share it with
other people who you think might enjoy
it. It's also helpful if you leave a
rating or a comment on whatever platform
you're listening on. If you're
interested in sponsoring the podcast,
you can reach out at
dwarcash.com/advertise.
Otherwise, I'll see you on the next one.